Topic 11 Memory Management

Hierarchy of Memory (higher is faster)

CPU
    CPU core
        Register file
        Cache storage (L1)

Motherboard
    L2 Cache
    L3 Cache
    RAM - main memory

-----------------------------------------

There are buses which carry data to and from the CPU to other components (such as ram), these buses are contrived of data and address buses which transport
data and data adresses to and from the CPU.


CPU does not handle memory directly. MMU(memory-management unit) handles memory for the CPU.


Standard HDDs will operate at 5400rpm, but can operate up to 15000rpm, on some enterprise drives.

A stack of HDD platters are called a cylinder.
    Each track of a platter is aligned along the cylinder.
        
Platters are partitioned

C,H,S tells us how the hard drive finds particular data on a platter
    Cylinder, Head, Sector

The operating system is what allocates and distributes physical memory of the computer to run programs.
    The operating system stores the parts of a program that does not normally get used on the hard drives.
        When the program runs it will load what it needs from hard drives into physical memory(ram), and from that it will load what it needs to cache or the CPU(and so on).

The VMS(virtual memory system) is what manages memory in an operating system.

Approaches to dealing with memory overload
    Swapping 
    Virtual memory - allows programs to run even when they are only partially in main memory(ram)


Memory of a running program
    stack - functions
    heap - dynamically allocated storage
    bss - block starting symbol
    data - initialized variables
    text - instructions

When a program deallocates dynamically allocated memory, that space becomes free to use, so the memory management portion of the operating system will determine
how that space gets reused. 

Spacial Locality - the behavior of our program accessing a location in memory, the likelihood of our program accessing a location close to the current location.

Temporal Locality - how long a part of the program stays in memory(time wise) while accessing other parts of the program.

Memory Management Algorithms

    First fit: scan list of segments, finds the first hole big enough to fit
    Next fit: same as first but keeps track of last location
    Best fit: search entire list for a hole that is the perfect fit
    Worst fit: always take the largest available hole
    Quick fit: keep list for common sizes requested

Virtual memory is a generalization of the base-and-limit Register
    Instead of having separate relocation for just text and data segments, the entire address space is mapped onto physical memory in fairly small units
    While a program is waiting for pieces of itself to be read in, the CPU can be doing other processes.

Page Replacement Algorithms
    Optimal Algorithm - cannot be implemented
    Second Chance -
    Clock -